---
date: 2025-11-19
---
**Clarable Services Agreement**

Last updated on November 19, 2025.

**HELPFUL PLACES INC.** (**“Helpful Places”**, **“Provider”,** **“Us”**, **“We”** or **“Our”**) is a social impact enterprise whose aim is to improve trust and foster meaningful dialogue between businesses, institutions and the communities they serve by enabling transparency practices for data collected by digital technologies deployed in the built environment, and how that data is used and stored.  

**HELPFUL PLACES IS THE STEWARD** of Digital Trust for Places and Routines (**“DTPR”** or the **“DTPR Standard”**), an open-source communication standard designed to increase transparency, legibility and accountability for technology in the built environment.

**THE DTPR STANDARD** consists of a taxonomy of terms and associated icons, a design guide specifying their use as well as a digital channel prototype.  The DTPR Standard is free for anyone to use, provided they comply with the terms of the open-source licenses that govern their use. The DTPR standard is available at https://github.com/helpful-places/dtpr.

This Clarable Services Agreement (**“Agreement”**) governs and applies to your (**“Client”, “You”** or **“Your”**) access to and use of the Clarable ( **“Platform”** or **“Services”**). The Platform is the management portal for the associated **DTPR Guide App**, whose Terms of Use are available at [https://github.com/Helpful-Places/docs/blob/main/DTPR%20Guide%20App/terms-of-use.md](https://github.com/Helpful-Places/docs/blob/main/DTPR%20Guide%20App/terms-of-use.md)

THIS AGREEMENT TAKES EFFECT WHEN YOU CLICK THE "I ACCEPT" BUTTON BELOW OR BY ACCESSING OR USING THE PLATFORM (the "Effective Date"). BY CLICKING ON THE "I ACCEPT" BUTTON BELOW OR BY ACCESSING OR USING THE PLATFORM YOU (A) ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THIS AGREEMENT; AND (B) ACCEPT THIS AGREEMENT AND AGREE THAT YOU ARE LEGALLY BOUND BY ITS TERMS.

IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THESE TERMS, YOU MAY NOT ACCESS OR USE THE PLATFORM.

1. Definitions.

   1. **“Aggregated Statistics”** means data and information related to Client's use of the Services that is used by Helpful Places in an aggregate and anonymized manner, including to compile statistical and performance information related to the provision and operation of the Services. Aggregated Statistics may include anonymized and aggregated information regarding authentication patterns, login frequencies, authentication method preferences, and Platform usage patterns, provided that such information cannot be used to identify any individual user or Client.

   2. **"Authorized User"** means Client and Client’s employees, consultants, contractors, and agents (i) who are authorized by Client to access and use the **Clarable**  Services under the rights granted to Client pursuant to this Agreement and (ii) for whom access to the **Clarable**  Services has been purchased hereunder.

   3. "**Clarable Services**" means the services provided by Provider under this Agreement that are reflected in the Client’s order.

   4. **“Client Data”** means, other than Aggregated Statistics, information, data, and other content, in any form or medium, that is submitted, posted, or otherwise transmitted by or on behalf of Client through the Services. For greater certainty, Client Data does not include: (i) authentication credentials, authentication-related data, or identity information processed by the Authentication Provider, except to the extent such data is separately stored or processed within the Platform beyond what is necessary for authentication purposes; or (ii) data that is independently generated by the Services regarding Client's use of the Platform, including system logs, performance metrics, and usage analytics.

   5. **“Client Party”** has the meaning set out in Section 3;

   6. **“Documentation”** means Helpful Places’ user manuals, handbooks and guides related to the Services provided by Helpful Places to Client either electronically or in hard copy form and includes end user documentation relating to the Services**,** which documentation may be updated or amended from time to time.

   7. **“DTPR Standard”** or **“DTPR”** means the Digital Trust for Places and Routines open-source communication standard that enables transparency, accountability and control for people.  The Icons, Design Guide and Taxonomy for DTPR are licensed by the Digital Transparency in the Public Realm contributors under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0).  Portions of the DTPR Icons incorporate elements of, or are derived from, the Material icons. The Material icons are available under the Apache License 2.0.  The source code for the Digital Channel Prototype is licensed under Apache License 2.0.

   8. **“Feedback”** has the meaning set out in Section 4(a)(iii);

   9. **“Fees”** has the meaning set out in Section 11; 

   10. **“Helpful Places IP”** means Clarable (excluding the DTPR Standard), the Documentation, and all Intellectual Property of Helpful Places (including without limitation any Pre-Existing Intellectual Property Rights of Helpful Places or derivative works created by Helpful Places) used or provided to Client (or any Client Party) in connection with the Services or the business of Helpful Places.  For greater certainty, Helpful Places IP includes Feedback and Aggregated Statistics and any information, data or other content derived from Helpful Places’ monitoring of Client’s access to or use of the Services, but does not include Client Data or Deliverables; 

   11. **“Intellectual Property”** means, in any medium, Confidential Information, copyright works, trade-marks, industrial designs, design rights, inventions (whether patentable or not), unpublished patent applications, inventive ideas, discoveries, innovations, developments, or improvements thereto, or any other intellectual property rights relating to any of the foregoing, whether registered or non-registered, whether or not reduced to written form or practice, within the scope of a Party’s business activities;

   12. **“Law”** means any statute, law, ordinance, regulation, rule, code, order, constitution, treaty, common law, judgment, decree, or other requirement of any federal, provincial, territorial, municipal, or foreign government or political subdivision thereof, or any arbitrator, court, or tribunal of competent jurisdiction; 

   13. **“Notice”** has the meaning set out in Section 17**;**

   14. **“Party”** means one of Helpful Places or Client; and **“Parties”** shall have a corresponding meaning;

   15. **"Pre-existing Intellectual Property Rights"** means all Intellectual Property Rights owned by a Party, or by a Party jointly with any third parties, that were created or invented by such Party prior to the Term of any SOW entered into pursuant to this Agreement, and which relate in any way to the business or contemplated business, products, activities, research or development of such Party, including but not limited to any invention or copyright works, and any registrations and applications arising from or related to the foregoing;

   16. **“Service Suspension”** has the meaning set out in Section 10; 

   17. **“Services”** means, collectively, (i) the use of Helpful Places’ proprietary platform that deploys, supports and monitors the use of the DTPR Standard (**“Clarable”**); and (ii) any Professional Services offered by Helpful Places in connection with DTPR, Clarable or the business of Helpful Places;

   18. **“Third-Party Products”** means any third-party products and services incorporated into or necessary for the provision of the Services, including: (i) WorkOS, Inc. authentication services; (ii) any other third-party products and services described in any SOW; and (iii) open-source products and services. For greater certainty, Third-Party Products include services that are essential to Platform functionality, including authentication and identity management services.

2. **Access and Use**    
   1. **Provision of Access.** Subject to payment of all Fees and compliance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement by Client, Helpful Places hereby grants to Client a non-exclusive, non-transferrable, non-sublicensable and worldwide license to access and use Clarable during the Term solely for your internal business operations by Authorized Users, in accordance with the terms and conditions herein, together with the terms of a **Statement of Work** (**“SOW”**) of work to be entered into between the Parties.

   2. **Documentation License.** Subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, Helpful Places hereby grants to Client a non-exclusive, non-sublicensable, non-transferable, licence for Authorized Users to use the Documentation during the Term solely for Client’s internal business purposes in connection with its use of the Services.  

   3. **Privacy Policy and Third-Party Authentication.** (a) Helpful Places complies with our privacy policy available at https://github.com/Helpful-Places/docs/blob/main/DTPR%20Guide%20App/privacy-policy.md in providing access to the Platform. The Privacy Policy may be updated by Helpful Places from time to time. By accessing, using, and providing information to or through the Services, you acknowledge that you have reviewed and accepted our Privacy Policy, and you consent to the collection, use, reproduction, hosting, transmission, and disclosure of your information in compliance with the then-current version of our Privacy Policy. (b) Authentication services for the Platform are provided by WorkOS, Inc., a third-party authentication service provider ("Authentication Provider"). To access the Platform, you must authenticate through the Authentication Provider using methods that may include, without limitation, Magic Links sent to your email address, single sign-on (SSO) through your organization's identity provider, or OAuth authentication through services such as Microsoft or Google. By using the Platform, you acknowledge and agree that: (i) Your authentication credentials and related data will be processed by the Authentication Provider in accordance with their terms of service and privacy policy, available at https://workos.com/privacy and https://workos.com/terms; (ii) Helpful Places does not store passwords for Platform access and has limited control over the Authentication Provider's services; (iii) You are responsible for maintaining the security of your email account, any devices used to access authentication credentials, and any credentials associated with your organization's SSO provider or OAuth services; (iv) You will promptly notify Helpful Places of any unauthorized access to your account or any security breaches of which you become aware.

3. **Client Responsibilities.**    
   1. **Account Use:** Client is responsible and liable for all uses of the Services and Documentation resulting from access provided by Client, directly or indirectly, whether such access or use is permitted by or in violation of this Agreement.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Client is responsible for all acts and omissions of Authorized Users, its employees, agents, shareholders, directors, officers, contractors and those for whom it is responsible at law (a **“Client Party”**), and any act or omission by any Client Party that would constitute a breach of this Agreement if taken by Client will be deemed a breach of this Agreement by Client.  Customer shall use all reasonable efforts to make all Client Parties aware of this Agreement’s provisions as applicable to such Client Party’s use of the Services and shall cause Client Parties to comply with such provisions.  Client shall, and shall cause all Client Parties to, comply with all applicable Laws in respect of the matters contemplated by this Agreement.
   2. **Passwords and Access Credentials**. Authentication to the Platform is provided through our third-party authentication service provider, WorkOS. You are responsible for maintaining the security of your email account and any devices used to access authentication links and credentials. You will promptly notify us about any unauthorized access to your account.

4. **Intellectual Property Rights.**    
   1. **Helpful Places IP.**  
      1. **Helpful Places IP and Third Party IP**. Client’s use of the Services is limited to its internal use, except as otherwise set out herein or in any SOW between the Parties.  Subject to the limited rights expressly granted pursuant to this Agreement, Helpful Places and its licensors reserve all rights not expressly granted to Client in this Agreement.  Except for the limited rights and licences expressly granted under this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement grants, by implication, waiver, estoppel, or otherwise, to Client or any third party any Intellectual Property Rights or other right, title or interest in or to the Helpful Places IP.  Helpful Places expressly reserves all right, title and interest in and to the Helpful Places IP**,** including all related Intellectual Property Rights.  Applicable third party providers (each a **“Third Party Supplier”**) own all right, title and interest, including all Intellectual Property Rights, in and to their respective Third-Party Products (the **“Third-Party IP”**).  

      2. **Aggregated Statistics.**  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Helpful Places may monitor Client’s use of the Services and collect and compile Aggregated Statistics.  As between Helpful Places and Client, all right title and interest in the Aggregated Statistics, and all Intellectual Property Rights therein, belong to and are retained solely by Helpful Places.  Client acknowledges that Helpful Places may compile Aggregated Statistics based on Client Data gathered by Helpful Places in delivering the Services.  Client agrees that Helpful Places may (i) make Aggregated Statistics publicly available in compliance with applicable Law, and (ii) use Aggregated Statistics to the extent and in the manner permitted under applicable Law.

      3. **Feedback.** If Client or any of its users, employees, contractors or agents sends or transmits any communications or materials to Helpful Places by mail, e-mail, telephone, or otherwise, suggesting or recommending changes to the Helpful Places IP or Third-Party IP, including without limitation, new features or functionality related thereto, or any comments, questions, suggestions or the like **(“Feedback”**), Helpful Places shall be free to use such Feedback irrespective  of any other obligation or limitation between the Parties governing such Feedback without compensation or attribution.  Client hereby assigns and will assign all right, title and interest in and to any Intellectual Property in and to Feedback.  Client shall execute or procure any and all documents confirming or transferring such right to Helpful Places within ten (10) business days of Helpful Places’ request for such documents. Client hereby waives or hereby agrees to procure waivers for any and all moral rights that may reside in any Feedback and, if requested, Client shall procure a written waiver of moral rights from its employees, contractors, agents or end users.

   2. **Open Source Materials:** Either Party may: (i) use and distribute the DTPR Standard and related open source materials (the **“Open Source Materials”**) in accordance with the applicable open source licenses that govern them.

   3. **Client IP.** 

      1. **Client Data:** As between Helpful Places and Client, Client exclusively owns all rights, title and interest in and to all electronic data or information submitted by Client and/or its Authorized Users to Helpful Places or uploaded onto Clarable (“**Client Data**”). Client hereby grants Helpful Places a non-exclusive, royalty free, worldwide license for the Term (and for thirty (30) days thereafter) to use, reproduce, distribute and otherwise display and exploit the Client Data, and to perform all acts with respect to the Client Data as may be necessary for Helpful Places to provide the Services. The forgoing license shall include the right for Helpful Places to use and copy the Client Data for the sole purpose of creating Aggregated Statistics; and Client hereby grants to Helpful Places a perpetual, irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide and unlimited license to reproduce, distribute, modify, and otherwise display and use anonymized Client Data which has been incorporated within the Aggregated Statistics. 

   4. **Generally:** 

      1. **Moral Rights:** Any assignment of copyrights under this Agreement includes all rights of paternity, integrity, disclosure and withdrawal and any other rights that may be known as "moral rights" (collectively, **“Moral Rights”**). Each Party hereby irrevocably waives, to the extent permitted by applicable law, any and all claims it may now or hereafter have in any jurisdiction to any Moral Rights with respect to the other Party’s Intellectual Property Rights.

      2. **Employees and Agents:** Upon the request of either Party, the requested Party shall require each of its employees to and shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that its contractors execute written agreements securing for requesting Party the rights provided for in this Section 4 (Intellectual Property) promptly.

      3. **Prohibited Uses:** Neither Party shall, at any time, directly or indirectly: (i) copy, modify, or reverse engineer the other Party’s Intellectual Property, in whole or in part; (ii) commercially exploit or in any way share the other Party’s Intellectual Property without their prior written consent; (iii) use the other Party’s Intellectual Property for any purpose which infringes, any Intellectual Property right, or other right of any person, that violates any law or which would bring the other Party into disrepute; (v) remove any proprietary notices, labels, or marks from the Intellectual Property; or (vi) access the other Party’s Intellectual Property in order to (a) build a competitive product or service, or (b) copy any ideas, features, functions or graphics of the other Party’s Intellectual Property.

5. **Third Party Terms.**  Helpful Places may, from time to time, incorporate and use Third-Party Products to deliver the Services or otherwise make other Third-Party Products available to Client.  For the purposes of this Agreement, such Third-Party Products are subject to their own terms and conditions (“**Third Party Licenses**”). If Client does not agree to abide by the applicable terms for any such Third-Party Products, then Client should not install or use such Third-Party Products. No rights are granted to Client hereunder in any Third-Party Products other than as expressly set forth in this Agreement.

   1. **Authentication Services.** (a) Authentication Provider. Client acknowledges that access to the Platform requires authentication through Helpful Places' Authentication Provider. Helpful Places has implemented reasonable security measures in selecting and integrating with the Authentication Provider, but does not control the Authentication Provider's systems, security practices, or service availability. (b) Authentication Methods. Helpful Places may, in its discretion and upon reasonable notice to Client, modify available authentication methods, add or remove authentication providers, require multi-factor authentication, or implement additional security measures. Client agrees to comply with any such authentication requirements as a condition of Platform access.(c) Authentication Provider Unavailability. In the event the Authentication Provider's services become unavailable, experience degraded performance, or are terminated: (i) Helpful Places shall use commercially reasonable efforts to restore authentication services or implement alternative authentication methods as promptly as reasonably possible; (ii) Any Service Suspension resulting solely from Authentication Provider unavailability beyond Helpful Places' reasonable control shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement by Helpful Places;(iii) Helpful Places shall provide notice to Client of any extended Authentication Provider outages of which it becomes aware. (d) Authentication Data. Client acknowledges that certain authentication-related data, including email addresses, authentication timestamps, authentication method preferences, and organization identifiers for SSO, may be shared with the Authentication Provider as necessary to provide authentication services. Such authentication data shall not be considered Client Data for purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise required by applicable Privacy Laws. (e) Client Responsibilities. Client is responsible for: (i) Maintaining current and accurate email addresses for all Authorized Users; (ii) Ensuring that Authorized Users comply with the Authentication Provider's terms of service; (iii) Promptly notifying Helpful Places of any required changes to authentication methods, including changes to SSO provider configurations; (iv) Implementing and maintaining appropriate security measures for email accounts and devices used to access authentication credentials.
     
6. **Third-Party Products.**  (a) Third-Party Products may be updated, modified, reduced, supplemented, or otherwise amended during the Term. Data or services provided by Third-Party Suppliers may be updated on an ongoing basis throughout the Term, and Client acknowledges that at any given time, the license granted hereunder shall provide Client with access to and use of the Third-Party Products as they exist at such point in time.
(b) Critical Third-Party Dependencies. Client acknowledges that certain Third-Party Products, including the Authentication Provider, are essential to Platform functionality. Helpful Places shall use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain relationships with Third-Party Suppliers, but does not guarantee the continued availability of any specific Third-Party Product. In the event a critical Third-Party Product becomes unavailable, Helpful Places shall use commercially reasonable efforts to implement alternative solutions or provide Client with reasonable notice if such alternatives cannot be implemented.
     
7. **Modifications to the Services.**  The Helpful Places IP remains under development, and are provided ‘as-is’, and as they may be modified, supplemented, or removed from time to time at Helpful Places’ sole discretion.  Helpful Places shall have no liability to Client for any modifications to the Services, provided that same comply in all material respects with the specifications set out in the applicable SOW.

8. **Services Use Restrictions.** Client shall not, and shall not permit any Authorized Users, use Clarable or Documentation for any purposes beyond the scope of the access granted this Agreement.  Client shall not, at any time, directly or indirectly, and shall not permit any Authorized Users to: (i) copy, modify or create derivative works from of the Helpful Places IP, in whole or in part; (ii) license, sublicense, sell, lend, share, resell, rent, lease, transfer, assign, distribute, publish, transfer, time share or otherwise commercially exploit or make the Helpful Places IP available to any third party; (iii) use Helpful Places IP to send spam or otherwise duplicative or unsolicited messages in violation of applicable laws or bring the Services, Helpful Places or any Third-Party Supplier into disrepute; (iv) use the Helpful Places IP for any purpose which infringes, misappropriates, or otherwise violates any Intellectual Property right, publicity right or other right of any person, or that violates any law; (v) use the Helpful Places IP to send or store malicious code, obscene, threatening, libelous, or otherwise unlawful or tortious material, including material that is harmful to children; (vi) use the Helpful Places IP to commit any fraudulent, hateful, criminal, misleading, deceptive or otherwise unethical practice, or to attempt to re-identify any individual from aggregated Data; (vii) interfere with or disrupt the integrity or performance of the Helpful Places IP or the data contained therein; (viii) attempt to gain unauthorized access to the Helpful Places IP or its related systems or networks; (ix) modify, translate, decompile, disassemble, decode, adapt, or remove any proprietary notices from the Helpful Places IP except to the extent that enforcement of this restriction is prohibited by applicable law notwithstanding a contractual provision to the contrary; (x) circumvent any user limits or other timing or use restrictions that are built into the Helpful Places IP; (xi) remove any proprietary notices, labels, or marks from the Helpful Places IP; (xii) frame or mirror any content forming part of the Helpful Places IP; or (xiii) access the Helpful Places IP in order to (a) build a competitive product or service, or (b) copy any ideas, features, functions or graphics of the Helpful Places IP.

9.  **Service Levels and Support.**  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, during the Term, Helpful Places shall use commercially reasonable efforts to (i) make Clarable available as much as reasonably possible or practices; and (ii) provide such support services as it determines in its sole discretion from time to time.  ***Customer acknowledges that Clarable and Services remain under development and that frequent changes and occasional downtime are to be expected.***

10. **Suspension.** Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, Helpful Places or any Third-Party Supplier may temporarily suspend Client’s and any Client Party’s access to all or any portion of Clarable or any other Helpful Places IP if: (i) Helpful Places reasonably determines that (A) there is a threat or attack on any of the Helpful Places IP or the Third-Party IP, (B) Client’s or any Client Party’s use of the Helpful Places IP or Third-Party IP disrupts or poses a security risk to the Helpful Places IP, Third-Party IP or to any other customer or vendor of Helpful Places, (C) Client, or any Client Party, is using the Helpful Places IP or Third-Party IP for fraudulent or illegal activities, (D) subject to applicable Law, Client has ceased to continue its business in the ordinary course, made an assignment for the benefit of creditors or similar disposition of its assets, or becomes the subject of any bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation, dissolution, or similar proceeding, or (E) Helpful Places’ provision of the Services to Client or any Client Party is prohibited by applicable Law; (ii) any vendor of Helpful Places has suspended or terminated Helpful Places’ access to or use of third party services or products required to enable Client to access the Services; or (iii) in accordance with Section 12 (Term and Termination) (any such suspension described in subclause (i), (ii) or (iii), a **“Service Suspension”**).  Helpful Places shall use commercially reasonable efforts provide written notice of any Service Suspension to Client and to provide updates regarding resumption of access to the Services following any Service Suspension.  Helpful Places shall use commercially reasonable efforts to resume providing access to the Services as soon as reasonably possible after the event giving rise to the Service Suspension is cured.  Helpful Places will have no liability for any damage, liabilities, losses (including any loss of data or profits), or any other consequences that Client or any Client Party may incur as a result of a Service Suspension. (iv) the Authentication Provider or any other critical Third-Party Supplier has suspended or terminated services necessary for Platform functionality, or such services have become unavailable for technical or other reasons beyond Helpful Places' reasonable control; In the event of a Service Suspension arising solely from Authentication Provider unavailability or other Third-Party Product failures beyond Helpful Places' reasonable control, Helpful Places' obligations under this Section 10 to provide notice and resume services shall be subject to Helpful Places' ability to obtain information from and coordinate with the relevant Third-Party Supplier.

11. **Fees.** 

    1. Client shall pay Helpful Places the fees (the “**Fees**”) set out in the applicable SOW without set-off or deduction, in Canadian dollars (unless otherwise specified), in accordance with the invoice instructions set out in the SOW, on or before the due date set out in the SOW, and in accordance with the terms of any invoice delivered pursuant thereto. 

    2. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable SOW or agreed to by the Parties in writing, Helpful Places will invoice Client on **monthly basis** in accordance with the Fees specified in the SOW, and all such Fees shall be due within **Thirty (30)** days of the invoice date.

    3. Unless otherwise stated, Fees do not include any direct or indirect local, state, provincial, federal or foreign taxes, levies, duties or similar governmental assessments of any nature, including value-added, goods and services, harmonized, use or withholding taxes (collectively, “**Taxes**”). Client is responsible for paying all Taxes associated with its purchases pursuant to this Agreement, excluding taxes based on Helpful Places’ net income or property. If Helpful Places has the legal obligation to pay or collect Taxes for which Client is responsible under this Section, the appropriate amount shall be invoiced to and paid by Client, unless Client provides Helpful Places with a valid tax exemption certificate authorized by the appropriate taxing authority.

    4. If Client’s account is Thirty (30) days or more overdue (except with respect to bona fide disputed charges in respect of which the parties are diligently pursuing resolution,) in addition to any of its other rights or remedies, Helpful Places reserves the right to suspend the Services provided to Client, without liability to Client, until such amounts are paid in full.

12. **Term and Termination**.

    1. **Term.** This Agreement shall commence as of the date Helpful Places notifies the Client it can access the Clarable  (the **“Effective Date”**) and, subject to earlier termination in accordance with the terms hereof, shall continue in effect until the expiry of all SOW’s entered into pursuant to this Agreement (the **“Term”**). 

    2. **Renewals**. Should the Client continue to use Clarable following expiration of the Term with the consent of Helpful Places, then, unless terminated by either Party in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the then current Term, the Term of the Agreement shall be automatically extended for successive periods of one (1) year each (with respect to the use of Clarable only) (any such subsequent extension terms referred to in this Agreement as an “**Extension Term**”), on the same terms and conditions as set out herein, save and except for the fee for use of the Platform, which shall be at Helpful Places’ then current standard rates.  

    3. **Termination.** Helpful Places may terminate this Agreement, effective immediately upon written notice to the Client, if the Client: (a) becomes insolvent or is generally unable to pay, or fails to pay, its debts as they become due; (b) files or has filed against it, a petition for voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or any other domestic or foreign proceeding relating to insolvency, receivership, liquidation or assignment for the benefit of creditors; (c) makes or seeks to make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; (d) applies for, or has appointed, a receiver, trustee, custodian or similar agent appointed by order of any court of competent jurisdiction to take charge of or sell any material portion of its property or business; or (e) breaches any term of this Agreement (including without limitation, Section 3 (Client Responsibilities) and Section 8 (Services Use Restrictions), which breach is not cured within ten (10) days of notice thereof from Helpful Places if capable of cure.  

    4. **Termination for Non-Payment of Fees**. Helpful Places may terminate this Agreement in the event Client is in material breach of this Agreement, which breach remains uncured for sixty (60) days, in each case on ten (10) days written notice to Client.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Helpful Places may terminate immediately upon notice in the case of a breach by Client of Section 3 (Client Responsibilities) and Section 8 (Services Use Restrictions).

    5. **Effect of Termination or Expiration.** Upon expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, Helpful Places shall immediately discontinue the Services, regardless of the state of completion or non-completion of same, Client shall immediately discontinue use of any Helpful Places IP and any Third-Party IP and, without limiting Client’s obligations under this Agreement, shall delete, destroy or return all copies of Helpful Places IP and any Third-Party IP required to be so deleted or returned and certify in writing to Helpful Places that the Helpful Places IP and Third-Party IP has been deleted or destroyed.  No expiration or termination will affect Client’s obligation to pay any Fees that may have become due before such expiration or termination or entitle Client to any refund. 

    6. **Fees for Existing SOWs.** If Client elects not to renew any SOW, Client shall still be liable for all Fees under the SOW until expiration of the current SOW term. 

    7. **Survival Generally.** The Parties agree that the following provisions shall survive any termination or expiration of this Agreement: Sections 3-5, 8, 11, 13-17.

13. **Representations and Warranties.**

    1. **Limited Warranty.**  Helpful Places warrants that the Services will conform in all material respects to the SOW when accessed and/or used in accordance with the Documentation and communications provided by Helpful Places.  Helpful Places does not make any representations or guarantees regarding availability of the Services. 

    2. **Helpful Places Representations**. During the Term, Helpful Places represents and warrants that it shall comply with all applicable international, federal, state, national, provincial and local Laws, including without limitation, Laws relating in any way to the privacy, confidentiality, or security of personal information (collectively, **“Privacy Laws”**); 

    3. **DISCLAIMER**. EXCEPT FOR THE LIMITED WARRANTY PROVIDED IN THIS SECTION, THE HELPFUL PLACES IP IS PROVIDED ON AN ‘AS IS’ BASIS, AND HELPFUL PLACES EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE.  HELPFUL PLACES SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTES AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRIGEMENT, AND ALL WARRANTIES ARISING FROM COURSE OF DEALING, USAGE, OR TRADE PRACTICE.  EXCEPT AS SET OUT IN SUBSECTION (A), HELPFUL PLACES MAKES NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND THAT THE HELPFUL PLACES IP, OR ANY PRODUCTS OR RESULTS OF THE USE THEREOF, WILL MEET CLIENT’S OR ANY THIRD PARTY’S REQUIREMENTS, OPERATE WITHOUT INTERRUPTION, ACHIEVE ANY INTENDED RESULT, BE COMPATIBLE OR WORK WITH ANY SOFTWARE, SYSTEM, OR OTHER SERVICES, OR BE SECURE, ACCURATE, COMPLETE, FREE OF HARMFUL CODE OR ERROR FREE. CLIENT AGREES THAT HELPFUL PLACES SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSSES ARISING FROM CLIENT’S USE OF THE DATA, INCLUDING ANY DECISION, OUTCOMES, OR RESULTS OF CLIENT BASED ON THE DATA.  THE WARRANTY IN THIS SECTION DOES NOT APPLY, AND HELPFUL PLACES EXPRESSLY AND STRICTLY DISCLAIMS, ALL WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO ANY THIRD-PARTY PRODUCTS.
    4. **Third-Party Products Disclaimer.** THE WARRANTY IN SECTION 13.1 DOES NOT APPLY, AND HELPFUL PLACES EXPRESSLY AND STRICTLY DISCLAIMS, ALL WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO ANY THIRD-PARTY PRODUCTS, INCLUDING THE AUTHENTICATION PROVIDER'S SERVICES. HELPFUL PLACES MAKES NO WARRANTY REGARDING THE AVAILABILITY, RELIABILITY, SECURITY, OR PERFORMANCE OF ANY THIRD-PARTY PRODUCTS. CLIENT'S USE OF THIRD-PARTY PRODUCTS IS GOVERNED SOLELY BY THE APPLICABLE THIRD-PARTY LICENSES, AND CLIENT'S SOLE RECOURSE FOR ANY ISSUES WITH THIRD-PARTY PRODUCTS IS AGAINST THE APPLICABLE THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIER IN ACCORDANCE WITH SUCH THIRD-PARTY LICENSES. HELPFUL PLACES SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ANY THIRD-PARTY PRODUCT FAILURES, SECURITY BREACHES, DATA LOSSES, OR SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.

14. **Client Indemnity.**  Client shall, indemnify, hold harmless, and at Helpful Places’ option, defend Helpful Places, its affiliates and its and their directors, officers, employees, contractors and agents (the **“Helpful Places Indemnified Parties”**) in any Third Party Claim against any of the Helpful Places Indemnified Parties alleging that the Client Data, any use of the Client Data, or Client use of the Services in violation of this Agreement, infringes or misappropriates the Intellectual Property or other rights of, or has otherwise harmed, a third party, including any breach by Client of the Third Party Licenses (**“Client Claims”**) and shall indemnify and hold the Helpful Places Indemnified Parties harmless from and against any settlement amounts agreed in writing by Client and/or any losses, damages, expenses or costs (including but not limited to reasonable legal fees) awarded to such third party against any of the Helpful Places Indemnified Parties by a court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction in any such Client Claim. As conditions for such defense and indemnification by Client, (i) Helpful Places shall notify Client promptly in writing upon becoming aware of all pending Client Claims; and (ii) Helpful Places shall cooperate fully with Client in the defense or settlement of such Client Claims.  Client shall not settle any Client Claim unless Helpful Places consents to such settlement, and further provided that Helpful Places shall have the right, at its option, to defend itself against any such Client Claim or to participate in the defence thereof by counsel of its own choice. 

15. **Limitation of Liability**. EXCEPT WITH RESPECT TO EACH PARTY’S INDEMNITY OBLIGATIONS, BREACH OF CONFIDENTIALITY, GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT, (I) NEITHER PARTY, ITS CONTRACTORS OR THEIR RESPECTIVE PERSONNEL SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIMS, LIABILITIES OR EXPENSES RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT FOR AN AGGREGATE AMOUNT IN EXCESS OF THE FEES PAID BY CLIENT TO HELPFUL PLACES HEREUNDER OVER THE 12-MONTH PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE DATE ON WHICH THE INITIAL ACT OR OMISSION GIVING RISE TO THE LIABILITY FIRST OCCURS; AND (II) NEITHER PARTY WILL BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY FOR INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, NOR FOR EXEMPLARY, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, LOST PROFITS, OR LOSS OF GOODWILL, EXCLUDING CLAIMS FOR FRAUD, WILLFUL MISCONDUCT, GROSS NEGLIGENCE, OR ARISING FROM A BREACH OF CONFIDENTIALITY OBLIGATIONS OR OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO WORK PRODUCT AND INVENTIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.  THIS SECTION SETS FORTH CLIENT’S SOLE REMEDIES AND HELPFUL PLACES’ SOLE LIABILITY AND OBLIGATION FOR ANY ACTUAL, THREATENED OR ALLEGED CLAIMS THAT THE HELPFUL PLACES IP INFRINGE, MISAPPROPRIATE OR OTHERWISE VIOLATE ANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF ANY THIRD PARTY.

16. Modifications. You acknowledge and agree that we have the right, in our sole discretion, to modify this Agreement from time to time, and that modified terms become effective on posting. You will be notified of modifications through direct email communication from us. You are responsible for reviewing and becoming familiar with any such modifications. Your continued use of the Clarable after the effective date of the modifications will be deemed acceptance of the modified terms..

17. **Notices**. All notices (each, a **“Notice”**) relating to this Agreement will be in writing and delivered (i) either by hand or by overnight mail, effective on the date received; or (ii) by email on the date after it was sent. Notices are to be sent to the addresses set forth below:

| HELPFUL PLACES INC. |  |  |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| **Address**: 25 Westminster Avenue,  Toronto, ON M6R 1N3 |  |  |
| **Email:** legalnotices@helpfulplaces.com |  |  |
|  |  |  |

18. **Governing Law and Jurisdiction**. This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the Province of Ontario, without regard to its conflicts of law principles. Any legal proceeding relating to this Agreement shall be brought in the Province of Ontario and the courts of the Province of Ontario.

19. **Waiver and Cumulative Remedies.** No failure or delay by either Party in exercising any right under this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of that right. Other than as expressly stated herein, the remedies provided herein are in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other remedies of a Party at law or in equity.

20. **Severability.** If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, the provision shall be modified by the court and interpreted so as best to accomplish the objectives of the original provision to the fullest extent permitted by law, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect.

21. **Assignment.** Neither Party may assign any of its rights or obligations hereunder, whether by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the other Party (not to be unreasonably withheld). Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Party may assign this Agreement, to an affiliate without the need for consent, but shall deliver prior written notice of same to the other.  Further, Helpful Places may assign this Agreement in connection with a merger, acquisition, corporate reorganization, or sale of all or substantially all of its business, stock or assets. Any attempt by a Party to assign its rights or obligations under this Agreement in breach of this Section shall be void and of no effect. Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall bind and enure to the benefit of the parties, their respective successors and permitted assigns.

22. **Entire Agreement.** This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties, and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, proposals or representations, written or oral, concerning its subject matter. No modification, amendment, or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the Party against whom the modification, amendment or waiver is to be asserted. 